Another type of event that
we'll look at is documents.
So one of the things that we
could do is we could say,
hey, whenever a user writes
out to a document, so
documents of uid, and
we provide a wildcard.
Whenever these things are updated,
we'll get the change back.
And just like how I mentioned before, we
could say hey, whenever someone mentions
change, let's update all of their
expenses with their new user profile.
So I can use the Admin SDK for that, so
const firestore is getFirestore.
It has a very similar but not totally
similar API because they're different
feature sets than the Client SDK,
but it's the same type of concepts.
And I can say, all right, now that I have
Firestore, right, not onCreate, right?
And here I can say,
all right let's get the user,
or I should say, expensesQuery.
And that's gonna be
firestore.collection('expenses').
And if I happen to fan out, I could do, or
if I had to use subcollection hierarchy,
I could do it that way,
but I can just say .where
where('uid') is = = to.
And within here actually,
I can get the context and
say context.Params,
and one of the params will be uid.
So now, I have the query.
If I wanna get all the data,
I can say snapshot and
I'll write, expensesQuery.get.
This will do a one-time
get of all these expenses.
And then now, I'll have the ability
to say snapshot.forEach,
and I can loop through and
I'll say forEach(snapshot).
This will give me every expense
that belongs to that user.
And before talked about using batches, so
I could say const batch
is firestore.batch.
And now within each one I could
say batch.update(snapshot).ref,
because this is the reference
of that expense,
so where that expense
lives in the database.
And we wanna update it with
a new piece of data, and
we wanna update it with a new user.
So to get the new user,
that is the change that is happening.
A user was updated, it's the change.
And so changes are interesting because
you can get the state before, and
you can get the state after the change.
And so that's really useful for
any type of, hey,
don't allow this to happen,
or allow this to happen.
There's so many good uses for this.
I want to get the new change.
So change, and I wanna get the after.
And I believe, yeah,
after is also a snapshot, so
let's say user = after.data().
So now,
each one will get added to the batch.
I need to, yeah, this should work.
Feel like might be doing something
wrong but we'll figure that out,
we're doing everything locally.
And now I can say await batch.commit().
And something to point out
here is that this will
atomically update all of this data.
But if there are more than 500,
it will throw an error.
I know that there's, not in this case.
So there's a couple of
things that I could do.
Maybe it's not important that
it all happens atomically, so
I could just read through it.
Also we learned how to do cursors,
so we could curse through it and
say, hey, let's create batches and
cursors, so it happens over time.
But in general, if you are doing more
than 500 or really more than I'd
say like 1,000 or so, this kind of thing
should be more of a cron job style thing,
or done on something that's meant
to be a much more longer process.
Cloud functions are only supposed to
be running for certain set of time.
I can't remember what
their max timeout is, but
in general it's not supposed to
be a very long server process.
There are other tools for that, though.
So now let's go through,
emulators are running, that's great.
And now I wanna go into the admin SDK,
and what I wanna do is,
as I zoom out here, Store,
great, so
let's say we go into the first user and,
let's see here, and
this user changes their city.
So they no longer live in Maputo,
they now live in, Washington DC.
Now we save, and
maybe some things are happening.
Let's copy this uid, cuz it's important.
And let's go into the logs.
So the logs will show me
if anything happened.
It says beginning execution
of update user expenses,
Right in here, but we didn't see any
errors, so let's see if it worked.
It's now in Firestore, I can go into
expenses and zoom out a little.
And no no, don't delete,
that would have been bad.
Man, I accidentally copied that ID.
All right, let's do it on another
user cuz I'm gonna lose their ID.
So user moved from
Santiago to Washington DC.
Let's get their ID, Check the logs again.
All right, that looks good.
Now let's go to expenses and
let's run a filter.
And so I can say where UID is
equal to this string, apply.
And so now if we go into user,
look at that, they're now Washington DC.
So that fanned out all of those updates.
So if I expect that to be a rare operation
where profiles don't change that much,
or maybe I only wanna
update on certain fields.
So as you can see,
we can check to see what field.
Maybe I only wanna update if
they change their industry, or
if they change their names or whatever.
So you can then fan out
all of those updates.
So that is a really good use case for
being able to keep data denormalized
across places, and just kind of
happens automatically as events occur.